docs: add document for adding binding page (#2042)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/concepts/asyncapi-document/adding-bindings.md

---
title: Adding Bindings
weight: 260
---

> Bindings in AsyncAPI provide a way to add protocol-specific information to the AsyncAPI documentation. They can be added to different document parts, such as servers, channels, or messages, to specify standard details specific to a particular protocol. The purpose of bindings is to enhance the understanding and usage of the API by providing additional context and configuration options for different protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bindings in AsyncAPI provide a way to add protocol-specific information to the AsyncAPI documentation. They can be added to different document parts, such as servers, channels, or messages; they specify standard details specific to a particular protocol. The purpose of bindings is to enhance the API's understanding and usage by providing additional context and configuration options for different protocols.
```

> Here is a diagram explaining binding:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following diagram highlights the sections where bindings can be implemented:
```

```mermaid
graph TD
A[AsyncAPI Document] --> B((Servers))
A --> D((Channels))
A --> E((Operations))
D --> F((Messages))
B --> C{Server Bindings}
D --> G{Channel Bindings}
E --> H{Operation Bindings}
F --> I{Message Bindings}

style C fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
style G fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
style H fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
style I fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
```

> This diagram illustrates the structure of an AsyncAPI document and the areas where bindings can be applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Server bindings

> Server bindings provide protocol-specific information related to the server configuration. For example, if you use Pulsar as your message broker, you can specify tenant name in the server bindings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server bindings provide protocol-specific information related to the server configuration. For example, if you use Pulsar as your message broker, you can specify the tenant name in the server bindings. 
```

> Here is a diagram explaining server binding:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a diagram explaining server bindings:
```

```mermaid
graph LR
A[AsyncAPI Document] --> B((Servers))
B --> C{Server Bindings}

style C fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
```

This diagram shows where server bindings fit into the AsyncAPI document structure.

> Here is an example of using server bindings to specify protocol-specific information related to the server configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next example showcases how to use server bindings to detail protocol-specific configurations for the server:
```

```yml
servers:
  production:
    bindings:
      pulsar:
        tenant: contoso
        bindingVersion: '0.1.0'
```

> This document shows how to set up server bindings for a server that is a Pulsar broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous document shows how to set up server bindings for a server that is a Pulsar broker.
```

## Channel bindings

Channel bindings are used to specify protocol-specific information for a specific channel. For example, in Kafka, you can specify number of partitions for a given topic.

> Here is a diagram explaining channel binding:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a diagram explaining where channel bindings fit into the AsyncAPI document structure:
```

```mermaid
graph LR
A[AsyncAPI Document] --> D((Channels))
D --> G{Channel Bindings}

style G fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
```

> This diagram shows where channel bindings fit into the AsyncAPI document structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Here is an example of using channel bindings to specify protocol-specific information for a specific channel:

```yml
channels:
  user-signedup:
    bindings:
      kafka:
        topic: 'my-specific-topic-name'
        partitions: 20
        replicas: 3
        topicConfiguration:
          cleanup.policy: ["delete", "compact"]
          retention.ms: 604800000
          retention.bytes: 1000000000
          delete.retention.ms: 86400000
          max.message.bytes: 1048588
        bindingVersion: '0.4.0'
```

> This document shows how to set up channel bindings for a channel that represents Kafka topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous document shows how to configure channel bindings for a Kafka topic-representative channel.
```

## Message bindings

> Message bindings provide protocol-specific information for a specific message. For example, for AMQP protocol you can specify the type of the message in a protocol specific notation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Message bindings provide protocol-specific information for a specific message. For example, for the AMQP protocol, you can specify the message type in a protocol-specific notation. 
```

> Here is a diagram explaining message binding:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a diagram explaining where message bindings fit into the AsyncAPI document structure:
```

```mermaid
graph LR
A[AsyncAPI Document] --> F((Channels))
F --> G{Message Bindings}

style G fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
```

> This diagram shows where Message Bindings fit into the AsyncAPI document structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Here is an example of using message bindings to provide protocol-specific information for a specific message:

```yml
channels:
  userSignup:
    address: 'user/signup'
    messages:
      userSignupMessage:
        bindings:
          amqp:
            contentEncoding: gzip
            messageType: 'user.signup'
            bindingVersion: 0.3.0
```

> This document shows how to set up message bindings for a message transported using AMQP protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous document shows how to set up message bindings for a message transported using the AMQP protocol.
```

> ## Operation Bindings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Operation bindings
```

> Operation bindings allow you to specify protocol-specific information for a specific operation. For example, for MQTT, you can specify the quality of the service for given operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operation bindings allow you to specify protocol-specific information for a specific operation. For example, for MQTT, you can specify the quality of the service for a given operation.
```

> Here is a diagram explaining operation binding:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a diagram explaining where operation bindings fit into the AsyncAPI document structure:
```

```mermaid
graph LR
A[AsyncAPI Document] --> D((Channels))
D --> E{Operations}
E --> H{Operation Bindings}

style H fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
```

> This diagram shows where operation bindings fit into the AsyncAPI document structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Here is an example of using operation bindings to specify protocol-specific information for a specific operation:

```yml
channels:
  user/signup:
operations:
  userSignup:
    action: receive
    bindings:
      mqtt:
        qos: 2
        retain: true
        bindingVersion: 0.2.0
```

> This document shows how to set up operation bindings for operation that describes how application that uses MQTT as transport, receives the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous document shows how to set up operation bindings for an operation that describes how an application that uses MQTT as transport, receives the message.
```

> By using bindings, you can enhance the AsyncAPI documentation with protocol-specific details, making it easier for developers to understand and implement the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using bindings helps you enhance the AsyncAPI documentation with protocol-specific details, making it easier to understand and implement the API.
```

---
title: Adding Bindings
weight: 260
---

Bindings in AsyncAPI provide a way to add protocol-specific information to the AsyncAPI documentation. They can be added to different document parts, such as servers, channels, or messages, to specify standard details specific to a particular protocol. The purpose of bindings is to enhance the understanding and usage of the API by providing additional context and configuration options for different protocols.

Here is a diagram explaining binding:

> ```mermaid

Reviewer 2: this is looking much better now 🚀

graph TD
A[AsyncAPI Document] --> B((Servers))
A --> D((Channels))

> D --> E((Operations))

Reviewer 2: on 3.0 operations are a separate object, not under channels

Reviewer 2: please make sure you followup with all review comments, this is still not fixed

D --> F((Messages))
B --> C{Server Bindings}
D --> G{Channel Bindings}
E --> H{Operation Bindings}
F --> I{Message Bindings}

style C fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
style G fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
style H fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
style I fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
```

This diagram illustrates the structure of an AsyncAPI document and the areas where bindings can be applied.

## Server bindings

> Server bindings provide protocol-specific information related to the server configuration. For example, if you use RabbitMQ as your message broker, you can specify the exchange name, type, durability, and virtual host in the server bindings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Server bindings provide protocol-specific information related to the server configuration. For example, if you use RabbitMQ (AMQP protocol) as your message broker, you can specify the exchange name, type, durability, and virtual host in the server bindings.
```

not all people that come for docs know amqp and rabbitmq, so better make it clear here, so they are not confused that broker name do not match the protocol in example

---
title: Adding Bindings
weight: 260
---

Bindings in AsyncAPI provide a way to add protocol-specific information to the AsyncAPI documentation. They can be added to different document parts, such as servers, channels, or messages, to specify standard details specific to a particular protocol. The purpose of bindings is to enhance the understanding and usage of the API by providing additional context and configuration options for different protocols.

```mermaid
graph TD
A[AsyncAPI Document] --> B((Servers))
A --> D((Channels))
D --> E((Messages))
B --> C{Server Bindings}
D --> F{Channel Bindings}
E --> G{Message Bindings}
```

> ## Server Bindings

Reviewer: We observe sentence capitalization for headers in our docs; please update all headers accordingly. 😄
